cdct-abss/README.adoc, before:

= Azure Blob Storage SDK

:imagesdir: ./doc/img

:axel-hodler: https://medium.com/@axelhodler/integration-tests-for-third-party-apis-dab67c52e352
:spring-cc: https://github.com/spring-cloud/spring-cloud-contract
:ms-azure-free: https://azure.microsoft.com/en-us/free/
:azure-dr-concept: https://docs.microsoft.com/en-us/azure/storage/common/storage-redundancy#redundancy-in-the-primary-region
:azure-at-doc: https://docs.microsoft.com/en-us/azure/storage/blobs/storage-blob-storage-tiers?tabs=azure-portal

This sub-module demonstrates how to capture requests to and responses from the
Azure Blob Storage API by using the Java SDK provided by Microsoft.

The request and responses serve to create PACT files and tests for:

. running nightly builds to detect changes in the third-party API
. mocking API integration in application code for isolated and fast testing
cycles

== Background

The article about {axel-hodler}[Integration Tests for Third Party APIs] by Axel
Hodler shows how to approach consumer-driven contract testing HTTP APIs.

It shows how to craft request and responses and use {spring-cc}[Spring Cloud
Contract] for test generation.

The Azure Blob Storage Java SDK abstracts the HTTP layer and thus hides the
low-level request and response details.

Probably the developer don't have time to read the Azure Blob Storage HTTP
documentation and can't afford to implement an HTTP client by herself.

This recorder module serves as an example how to capture requests and responses
of the Azure Blob Storage communication by using the Azure Blob Storage Java
SDK.

== Usage

In order to capture the Azure Blob Storage communication, you have to create
a valid Azure account and set up the required entities on the Azure cloud
platform. By following the step-by-step guide below you end up with all
requirments to try out the recorder component on your own.

[#_create_azure_account]
=== Create Azure account

{ms-azure-free}[Microsoft Azure] can be evaluated for free during the first 12
months of your subscription.

.Azure free account landing page
image::001-azure-start-free-landingpage.png[]

Click on "Start free", then login with your Microsoft account or create a new
one.

.Sign in with your Microsoft account
image::002-microsoft-signin.png[]

////
TODO: add screenshots between "signin" and "profile information" input when
TODO: using the "free" plan (not possible with Microsoft accounts which
TODO: applied for the Free plan before).

If asked to create a free Azure account, confirm by clicking on "Start free".

.Create free Azure account
image::003-create-azure-account.png[]

After the second screen opened, proceed by clicking "Start free".

.Really create free Azure account
image::004-confirm-azure-account-creation.png[]
////

Provide your profile information in step 1 and proceed by clicking "Next".

.Signup step 1: Profile information
image::005-azure-signup-step1.png[]

When asked for identity verification by phone, opt-in to "Text me".

.Signup step 2: Identity verification
image::006-azure-signup-step2.png[]

You should receive a text message, enter the verification code and proceed by
clicking "Verify"

.Signup step 2: Verify Identity verification
image::007-azure-signup-step2-verify.png[]

Provide your credit card information and proceed by clicking "Next"

.Signup step 3: Credit card information
image::008-azure-signup-step3.png[]

Finally, activate the checkbox starting with "I agree to..." and finish by
clicking "Sign up"

.Signup step 4: Agreement
image::009-azure-signup-step4.png[]

After all, you should eventually be presented to a "Welcome to Azure!"
wizard.

.Azure Welcome screen
image::010-welcome-to-azure.png[]

=== Create Azure Blob Storage resources

IMPORTANT: When creating and using Azure resources without a _Free_ subscription
plan your credit card will be charged by Microsoft Azure cloud platform.

==== Storage account

Point your mouse cursor to the "Storage accounts" tile and click "+ Create" in
the appearing tooltip.

.Create Storage account
image::101-create-storage-account.png[]

While at the "Basics" tab of the "Create storage account" wizard, select or
create a _Resource group_, choose a Azure-globally unique _Storage account name_
and choose a _Location_ which match your needs.

For the _Performance_, _Account kind_, _Replication_ and _Blob access tier_
settings select a combination to keep the costs at a minimum. Use the inline
context help icons (_i_) to gain more information.

[quote, Excerpt of the inline context help icon tooltip of "Performance"]
____
Standard storage accounts are backed by magnetic drives and provide the lowest
cost per GB.
____


[quote, Excerpt of the inline context help icon tooltip of "Account kind"]
____
Blob storage accounts are specialized for storing blob data and support choosing
an access tier, which allows you to specify how frequently data in the account
is accessed. Choose an access tier that matches your storage needs and optimizes
costs.
____

[quote, 'Excerpt of the {azure-dr-concept}[Data redundancy concept documentation]']
____
Locally redundant storage (LRS) copies your data synchronously three times
within a single physical location in the primary region. LRS is the least
expensive replication option, but is not recommended for applications requiring
high availability.
____

[quote, 'Excerpt of the {azure-at-doc}[Azure Blob storage access tiers documentation]']
____
Data in the cool access tier can tolerate slightly lower availability, but still
requires high durability, retrieval latency, and throughput characteristics
similar to hot data. For cool data, a slightly lower availability service-level
agreement (SLA) and higher access costs compared to hot data are acceptable
trade-offs for lower storage costs.
____

NOTE: The recorder will perform read and write operations. The _Cool_ access tier
option is probably useful in archive scenarios, but our experiment needs good
availability and throughput characteristics.

image::102-basics.png[]

Continue by clicking "Next: Networking >". Go with the default settings as we
are going to store only test data which does not require any special security
considerations.

IMPORTANT: If you plan to test the recorder with personal and/or private data,
assets or other sensitive information ensure to check the Azure documentation
and *adjust the settings accordingly*.

image::103-networking.png[]

Proceed by clicking "Next: Data protection >". No special settings need to be
enabled here, again. The data we're going to use is for demonstration purposes
only.

image::104-data-protection.png[]

Continue with clicking "Next: Advanced >". This step does not require any
special options being set. Leave the defaults as shown in the screenshot below.

image::105-advanced.png[]

You can safely skip the step "Next: Tags >" as this allows you to define some
meta data on the storage account which is not useful in the moment.

Finish the wizard by clicking "Review + create". Review your settings and click
"Create" to confirm creation of the storage account.

NOTE: As a reference, the template which was offered in the link
"Download a template for automation" at the bottom of the screen is included
within this project at `cdc-abss/doc/templates/storage-account/`.

image::106-confirm-creation.png[]

The Azure cloud platform deploys a storage account with the configured settings
and notifies you if the deployment completed. Click on "Go to resource" to open
the storage account resource.

image::107-deployment-complete.png[]


==== Storage container

A storage container is needed to write and read data with the Azure Storage SDK.

Switch to _Blob service_ / _Containers_ and click _+ Container_ to create one.

image::201-create-container.png[]

Enter a name for the container, keep the _Public access level_ at *Private* and
confirm the creation by clicking "Create".

image::202-new-container.png[]

== Support

TODO

== Roadmap

TODO

== Contributing

TODO

== License

link:LICENSE.adoc[MIT]

Commit message:

Finish working recorder test implementation

cdct-abss/README.adoc, after:

= Azure Blob Storage SDK

:imagesdir: ./doc/img

:axel-hodler: https://medium.com/@axelhodler/integration-tests-for-third-party-apis-dab67c52e352
:spring-cc: https://github.com/spring-cloud/spring-cloud-contract
:ms-azure-free: https://azure.microsoft.com/en-us/free/
:azure-dr-concept: https://docs.microsoft.com/en-us/azure/storage/common/storage-redundancy#redundancy-in-the-primary-region
:azure-at-doc: https://docs.microsoft.com/en-us/azure/storage/blobs/storage-blob-storage-tiers?tabs=azure-portal

This sub-module demonstrates how to capture requests to and responses from the
Azure Blob Storage API by using the Java SDK provided by Microsoft.

The request and responses serve to create PACT files and tests for:

. running nightly builds to detect changes in the third-party API
. mocking API integration in application code for isolated and fast testing
cycles

== Background

The article about {axel-hodler}[Integration Tests for Third Party APIs] by Axel
Hodler shows how to approach consumer-driven contract testing HTTP APIs.

It shows how to craft request and responses and use {spring-cc}[Spring Cloud
Contract] for test generation.

The Azure Blob Storage Java SDK abstracts the HTTP layer and thus hides the
low-level request and response details.

Probably the developer don't have time to read the Azure Blob Storage HTTP
documentation and can't afford to implement an HTTP client by herself.

This recorder module serves as an example how to capture requests and responses
of the Azure Blob Storage communication by using the Azure Blob Storage Java
SDK.

== Usage

In order to capture the Azure Blob Storage communication, you have to create
a valid Azure account and set up the required entities on the Azure cloud
platform. By following the step-by-step guide below you end up with all
requirments to try out the recorder component on your own.

[#_create_azure_account]
=== Create Azure account

{ms-azure-free}[Microsoft Azure] can be evaluated for free during the first 12
months of your subscription.

.Azure free account landing page
image::001-azure-start-free-landingpage.png[]

Click on "Start free", then login with your Microsoft account or create a new
one.

.Sign in with your Microsoft account
image::002-microsoft-signin.png[]

////
TODO: add screenshots between "signin" and "profile information" input when
TODO: using the "free" plan (not possible with Microsoft accounts which
TODO: applied for the Free plan before).

If asked to create a free Azure account, confirm by clicking on "Start free".

.Create free Azure account
image::003-create-azure-account.png[]

After the second screen opened, proceed by clicking "Start free".

.Really create free Azure account
image::004-confirm-azure-account-creation.png[]
////

Provide your profile information in step 1 and proceed by clicking "Next".

.Signup step 1: Profile information
image::005-azure-signup-step1.png[]

When asked for identity verification by phone, opt-in to "Text me".

.Signup step 2: Identity verification
image::006-azure-signup-step2.png[]

You should receive a text message, enter the verification code and proceed by
clicking "Verify"

.Signup step 2: Verify Identity verification
image::007-azure-signup-step2-verify.png[]

Provide your credit card information and proceed by clicking "Next"

.Signup step 3: Credit card information
image::008-azure-signup-step3.png[]

Finally, activate the checkbox starting with "I agree to..." and finish by
clicking "Sign up"

.Signup step 4: Agreement
image::009-azure-signup-step4.png[]

After all, you should eventually be presented to a "Welcome to Azure!"
wizard.

.Azure Welcome screen
image::010-welcome-to-azure.png[]

=== Create Azure Blob Storage resources

IMPORTANT: When creating and using Azure resources without a _Free_ subscription
plan your credit card will be charged by Microsoft Azure cloud platform.

==== Storage account

Point your mouse cursor to the "Storage accounts" tile and click "+ Create" in
the appearing tooltip.

.Create Storage account
image::101-create-storage-account.png[]

While at the "Basics" tab of the "Create storage account" wizard, select or
create a _Resource group_, choose a Azure-globally unique _Storage account name_
and choose a _Location_ which match your needs.

For the _Performance_, _Account kind_, _Replication_ and _Blob access tier_
settings select a combination to keep the costs at a minimum. Use the inline
context help icons (_i_) to gain more information.

[quote, Excerpt of the inline context help icon tooltip of "Performance"]
____
Standard storage accounts are backed by magnetic drives and provide the lowest
cost per GB.
____


[quote, Excerpt of the inline context help icon tooltip of "Account kind"]
____
Blob storage accounts are specialized for storing blob data and support choosing
an access tier, which allows you to specify how frequently data in the account
is accessed. Choose an access tier that matches your storage needs and optimizes
costs.
____

[quote, 'Excerpt of the {azure-dr-concept}[Data redundancy concept documentation]']
____
Locally redundant storage (LRS) copies your data synchronously three times
within a single physical location in the primary region. LRS is the least
expensive replication option, but is not recommended for applications requiring
high availability.
____

[quote, 'Excerpt of the {azure-at-doc}[Azure Blob storage access tiers documentation]']
____
Data in the cool access tier can tolerate slightly lower availability, but still
requires high durability, retrieval latency, and throughput characteristics
similar to hot data. For cool data, a slightly lower availability service-level
agreement (SLA) and higher access costs compared to hot data are acceptable
trade-offs for lower storage costs.
____

NOTE: The recorder will perform read and write operations. The _Cool_ access tier
option is probably useful in archive scenarios, but our experiment needs good
availability and throughput characteristics.

image::102-basics.png[]

Continue by clicking "Next: Networking >". Go with the default settings as we
are going to store only test data which does not require any special security
considerations.

IMPORTANT: If you plan to test the recorder with personal and/or private data,
assets or other sensitive information ensure to check the Azure documentation
and *adjust the settings accordingly*.

image::103-networking.png[]

Proceed by clicking "Next: Data protection >". No special settings need to be
enabled here, again. The data we're going to use is for demonstration purposes
only.

image::104-data-protection.png[]

Continue with clicking "Next: Advanced >". This step does not require any
special options being set. Leave the defaults as shown in the screenshot below.

image::105-advanced.png[]

You can safely skip the step "Next: Tags >" as this allows you to define some
meta data on the storage account which is not useful in the moment.

Finish the wizard by clicking "Review + create". Review your settings and click
"Create" to confirm creation of the storage account.

NOTE: As a reference, the template which was offered in the link
"Download a template for automation" at the bottom of the screen is included
within this project at `cdc-abss/doc/templates/storage-account/`.

image::106-confirm-creation.png[]

The Azure cloud platform deploys a storage account with the configured settings
and notifies you if the deployment completed. Click on "Go to resource" to open
the storage account resource.

image::107-deployment-complete.png[]


==== Storage container

A storage container is needed to write and read data with the Azure Storage SDK.

Switch to _Blob service_ / _Containers_ and click _+ Container_ to create one.

image::201-create-container.png[]

Enter a name for the container, keep the _Public access level_ at *Private* and
confirm the creation by clicking "Create".

image::202-new-container.png[]

==== Shared access signature

To programmatically access the container you should use the _Settings_ /
_Shared access signature_ module of the storage account to create an appropriate
connection string.

The option _Allowed resource types_ constrains the usage to the level of
operation. Only _Object_ needs to be enabled.

You can keep the default values of all other fields or adjust if you like.

image::301-sas.png[]

Click "Generate SAS and connection string" and copy the value from field
_Connection string_.

image::302-sas-copy.png[]

IMPORTANT: The name of the container and the SAS connection string must be set
in the fields `connection_string` and `container_name` of the file
`recorder.properties` in `cdct-abss-recorder/src/test/resources`.

== Support

TODO

== Roadmap

TODO

== Contributing

TODO

== License

link:LICENSE.adoc[MIT]
